>> Jason Lengstorf: I think we're
ready to build ourselves a header, so
we're gonna create a new file for
this cuz it's got a little bit going on.
So we can just go ahead and hop into our
components folder and create a new file,
we're gonna call this header.js.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we're gonna do another react component, so
let's import react from react.
And this time,
we're gonna use a styled component,
so we're gonna import
styled from emotion/styled.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we're also gonna use the CSS props, so
I'm gonna important CSS
from the emotion/core.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And let's also import
link because we're gonna be linking
between our home and
about pages in the nav bar, so
we're gonna import that from gatsby.
And then to start, we will do our header,
so the const header is going to just
be,
>> Jason Lengstorf: A header
element like we saw it here.
And this one is going to take some links.
And so the first link that we wanna do,
if we just kinda comment this out,
we wanna do like a site name.
Like the where we are,
kind of the branding for the site, and
then we wanna add navigation.
And so to do that we need nav links,
but we wanna style these links and
I don't necessarily want to apply
a CSS prompt to every one of them.
Which means, we wanna use what's
called a styled component.
So I'm gonna create something called nav
link, and this is gonna be a styled link.
And so in doing this, I'm basically saying
like, I wanna use this component, but
I wanna apply styles to it.
And I can do that by let's say,
I want to set the color, so
I don't want it to be standard link color,
I want it to be like the triple 2s.
I want the font size to
be the default font size,
we want the font-weight to be,
let's say, normal.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And we want the line
height to be 1 because this doesn't occupy
any more vertical space than it needs to.
We don't want these to be
stuck right on each other so
we're gonna give them a little
horizontal breathing room.
But only on the right so that we'll have
to override this a little bit later on.
And so that it's easier to click,
we're gonna add a little bit of
padding to make the click area bigger.
And we're gonna remove the underline.
So in doing that,
now I can come down here and I can say,
let's do a NavLink for Home.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And this is
going to be a link to the home page.
And let's tell everybody what we're doing.
We're doing a Frontend Masters workshop.
And so I, before we go any further, let's
actually get this showing on the screen so
we can see our work and mess with it.
We're gonna default export to header.
Once we've exported the header,
I'm gonna come back over here and
I'm gonna import it.
Let me collapse this so
we can see what we're doing.
So I'm gonna import
the header from header, and
then I’m just gonna drop
it in right here instead.
And so now, you can see,
we’ve got our workshop
is right at the top.
And so, this is good,
we’re getting closer.
Let’s style up this header
a little bit more and to do that,
we're gonna use the CSS prompt.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And I'm gonna use,
let's do like a light colored background.
And so
I can save each of these steps as I go.
Now we can see we've got our
light colored background there.
Let's add a border bottom
to really set it off.
So we'll do a one pixel
solid border of triple D.
That'll give us just a little
bit of definition down here.
Then I'm gonna make it display flex and
the reason for that is that I want to put
the header on the left and the text on
the right, or the links on the right.
Actually, lets hold off on that,
I'm gonna leave that out for now.
And lets build the nav so
we can see how this actually affects it.
So we're going to use a nav component.
And this nav component is
going to get a CSS prompt,
because we just wanna
remove that top margin.
I'm gonna let prettier do the work for
me here.
So I'm just gonna say
the margin top is zero.
And when I save this, it is going
to fix all of those things for me.
So I'm gonna add a nav link to the home
page and,
>> Jason Lengstorf: That's what I want and
I can say, home.
And then I'm gonna add
one more to the about.
And we'll say, about and
now when I save these,
you can see we've got kind of
some stacking, it's not ideal.
So let's turn this display flex on.
Okay, so that's better but
still not great.
So to fix that,
let's do a justify content and
we'll set space between.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, now we're
getting there, we're cooking with gas.
And finally,
we'll set a little bit of padding here.
So I want this to have
some vertical padding.
And then we're gonna do some CSS wizardry,
copyright Harry Roberts.
This is a little bit of Math
in CSS which is super fun.
So what I want is, I don't want to
add a rapper div around my header.
So instead, I need to find a way
to set my width to be either 90
vertical width or the 550.
Which means that we've gonna do some math.
I'm gonna do a 100 vertical width,
minus 550 pixels so
a 100% of the screen
minus 550% of the screen.
And then I'm gonna divide that by 2.
And so this now,
gives us half the padding we need so
that it stays the right whip.
Neat, right?
[LAUGH] And that's the end of the workshop
you've learned the most important thing
you needed to know today.
So what's cool about this is, it gives us
the ability to kind of set this stuff up
and not have to add a bunch
of extra markup into the DOM.
I really enjoyed that and
wanted to kind of share.
So a couple things are left to do here.
We don't know which page we're on.
So as I click,
I can't see what's going on.
And I wanna be able to see that, right?
So we need to be able to set what
things are and like what they're doing.
So I'm going to up here.
I want a way to say that
something is the current page.
And so if you've used SAS or
any other kind of nested CSS,
you might have seen this before.
This Ampersand means like this element and
then I'm adding a class to it.
So when this element has the class
current page applied do extra things.
And the extra thing that I'm gonna do
is I'm going to set a border bottom
of two pixels solid and
we'll use the triple two for that.
And then that means that down here,
I have to tell it how to be,
how to use that class.
So I’m going to set a prop down here.
And this is a prop that
Gatsby just accepts.
So when it’s active,
you can set an active class name.
And we're gonna set that
to be current page.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, so
now we can see, hey, that's cool.
That's what we wanted.
And then I'm also wanting to set
>> Jason Lengstorf: One of these to bold,
and so
I want the home link to be bold, but
I don't necessarily wanna
just add a CSS prop to this.
So we're gonna use something pretty
cool that CSS and JS allow us to do,
which is using props to determine styles.
So I'm going to set a prop down here,
of font-weight.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
I'm gonna set that to bold.
But, what I want to do, is up here,
so that's not just gonna work,
but what I can do is up here,
I can look at the
>> Jason Lengstorf: At the props, and so
I can just create a template string and
add in a little function.
So I'm gonna look at my props.
And then I'm either going to
use the props.fontweight,
or I'm gonna send back normal.
And what's really cool about that is
that it allows us to kind of configure
our components,
to be a little more flexible.
So I'm basically saying like,
do it bold when I tell you to otherwise,
default to normal.
And if I wanted to set it to be a really
light font weight or something,
I could do that as well.
But so this is a,
that's a pretty powerful way to do that.
And with that being said, I believe we
are pretty much ready to rock on this.
Let's see if I, yeah I think
we're in pretty good shape here.
We've got ourselves a header, that
header is consistent across the pages.
Looks like I've got a couple little margin
issues that I guess I can deal with.
Let's deal with those.
And so the way that we would do this is we
would just subtract that padding width.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
now that you can see,
pulled it back just
enough to make that work.
And then over here, we've got straight
margin, so I'm also going to add
a last child or I think last of type.
So we're gonna use the selector and
we'll do last of type
and we'll set the margin-right to 0.
And that way-
>> Student: You got a typo.
It says last of type.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Laste, last of type.
>> Jason Lengstorf: There we go.
So now, that margin is gone, so
that when we do have text that runs
the full width, you can see that
the right edge of these blocks lines
up with the right edge of the item.
So that's what we want.
We're in good shape here.
With that,
we are done with styles for now.
This is kind of, gonna be the global
style sheet that we'll stick to for
everything else that we do.
If you are wanting to jump ahead,
you can check out
Step One, Styles, and
you'll be where we just ended.
So next,
we're going to dive into graph ql, and
we're gonna build some content from data
as opposed to just hard coding things.